\setcounter{page}{2}
\begin{center}

    \large
    Scaling Up 3D Imaging, Analysis, and Culture\\ 
    of Complex Brain Models
    \normalsize

    by
    
    Justin M. Swaney

    \vspace{0.1cm}

    \small
    Submitted to the Department of Chemical Engineering on December 11th, 2019 \\ 
    in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree of \\ 
    Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical Engineering

\end{center}
\normalsize

\MakeUppercase{Abstract}
\phantomsection
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract}

The brain is the most complex human organ, containing components from the
nanometer scale to the centimeter scale. However, many experimental techniques
in neuroscience have been optimized for small brain models. This thesis
summarizes a body of work aimed at scaling up 3D imaging, analysis, and tissue
culture techniques for large-scale brain models. We present a technique termed
SWITCH that inhibits probe binding to allow for diffusion without the formation
of a reaction front. To improve imaging resolution, we present a tissue
expansion technique called MAP that physically magnifies tissue samples for
super-resolution imaging with conventional fluorescence microscopes. Using these
tools to achieve volumetric imaging of large-scale brain models generates
petabyte-scale data, for which we present horizontally scalable image processing
pipelines for analysis of intact mouse brains, marmoset brain samples, and
cerebral organoids. The mouse brain pipeline allows region-based statistical
analysis of protein expression and cell counts. An efficient single-cell
non-rigid coregistration algorithm for multiplexed volumetric fluorescence
imaging based on matching corresponding nuclei between imaging rounds is
presented. A multiscale phenotyping pipeline allows single-cell,
cytoarchitectural, and morphological analyses to be combined into a
hyperdimensional statistical analysis of cerebral organoids. We use this
pipeline to show phenotypic changes due to neurodevelopment, Zika virus
infection, and changes in organoid culture protocols. Current cerebral organoid
cultures lack a vascular system and are limited by nutrient transport. To
address this issue in vitro, we fabricated synthetic vasculature by two-photon
photopolymerization of polyethylene glycol-based resins. Printed micro-vessels
were biocompatible, less than 100 Âµm in outer diameter, and permeable to
biomolecules through engineered pore structures. Perfusion of vascularized
cerebral organoids cultured for 30 days resulted neuronal differentiation as
well as integration of the vascular network. Future studies can use and build on
these technical advances to further our understanding of the brain through the
use of large-scale brain models.

Thesis Supervisor: Kwanghun Chung  
Title: Professor of Chemical Engineering

\thispagestyle{empty}
\newpage
