# Abstract {.unnumbered}

The brain is the most complex human organ, containing components from the
nanometer scale to the centimeter scale. However, many experimental techniques
in neuroscience have been optimized for smaller brain models. This thesis
summarizes a body of work aimed at scaling up 3D imaging, analysis, and tissue
culture techniques for large-scale brain models. We present a technique termed
SWITCH that inhibits probe binding to allow for diffusion without the formation
of a reaction front. To improve imaging resolution, we present a tissue
expansion technique called MAP that physically magnifies tissue samples for
super-resolution imaging. Using these tools to achieve volumetric imaging of
large-scale brain models generates petabyte-scale data, for which we present
horizontally scalable image processing pipelines for analysis of intact mouse
brains, marmoset brain samples, and cerebral organoids. The mouse brain pipeline
allows region-based statistical analysis of protein expression and cell counts.
An efficient single-cell nonrigid coregistration algorithm for multiplexed
volumetric fluorescence imaging based on matching corresponding nuclei between
imaging rounds is presented. A multiscale phenotyping pipeline allows
single-cell, cytoarchitectural, and morphological analyses to be combined into a
hyperdimensional statistical analysis of cerebral organoids. We use this
pipeline to show phenotypic changes due to neurodevelopment, Zika virus
infection, and changes in culture protocols. Current cerebral organoid cultures
are limited by nutrient transport since they lack a vascular system. To address
this issue in vitro, we fabricated synthetic vasculature by two-photon
photopolymerization of polyethylene glycol based resins. Printed micro-vessels
were less then 100 Âµm in outer diameter, permeable to biomolecules through
engineered pore structures, and biocomaptible. Perfusion of vascularized
cerebral organoids cultured for 30 days resulted in the expected neuronal
differentiation as well as integration of the vascular network. Future studies
can use and build on these technical advances to further our understanding of
the brain through the use of large-scale brain models.

\setcounter{page}{2}
