# Simple, Scalable Proteomic Imaging for High-Dimensional Profiling of Intact Systems

## Summary

Combined measurement of diverse molecular andanatomical traits that span multiple levels remains amajor challenge in biology. Here, we introduce asimple method that enables proteomic imaging forscalable, integrated, high-dimensional phenotypingof both animal tissues and human clinical samples.This method, termed SWITCH, uniformly securestissue architecture, native biomolecules, and antige-nicity across an entire system by synchronizing thetissue preservation reaction. The heat- and chemi-cal-resistant nature of the resulting framework per-mits multiple rounds (>20) of relabeling. We haveperformed 22 rounds of labeling of a single tissuewith precise co-registration of multiple datasets.Furthermore, SWITCH synchronizes labeling reac-tions to improve probe penetration depth and uni-formity of staining. With SWITCH, we performedcombinatorial protein expression profiling of the hu-man cortex and also interrogated the geometricstructure of the fiber pathways in mouse brains.Such integrated high-dimensional information mayaccelerate our understanding of biological systemsat multiple levels.

## Introduction

Biological systems are comprised of vast numbers of molecules,cell types, and intricate tissue organizations (Alivisatos et al.,2013; Kasthuri et al., 2015; Yuste, 2015). Understanding thecomplex interactions of these components is essential formany fields of biology and often requires high-dimensional infor-mation across many scales. Although it is desirable to obtainsuch information from the same tissue due to large individualvariations, combined measurement of many molecular andanatomical traits remains an unmet goal in biology despite theremarkable success of current pioneering methods, such asarray tomography (Micheva et al., 2010; Rah et al., 2013).

Rapidly evolving tissue-clearing techniques may enable multi-plexed labeling and imaging of intact samples using light micro-scopy (Chung et al., 2013; Chung and Deisseroth, 2013; Renieret al., 2014; Richardson and Lichtman, 2015; Susaki et al.,2014). For instance, the CLARITY technique has demonstratedthree rounds of immunostaining of mouse brain tissue (Chunget al., 2013). However, we have noticed that the polyacryl-amide-based framework loses structural integrity upon repeatedexposure to the elution condition. Recent reports also suggestthat preservation of antigenicity in the CLARITY method maynot be optimal (Renier et al., 2014). Furthermore, the necessarytissue-gel hybridization step requires delivery of charged thermalinitiators with limited diffusivity and stability. This necessity im-poses a limit on the tissue size that can be processed withoutthe use of transcardial perfusion.

We set our goal to develop a simple, scalable, and generaliz-able tissue-processing method for proteomic imaging of intactbiological systems. To achieve this, we created SWITCH (sys-tem-wide control ofinteractiontime and kinetics ofchemicals),which tightly controls a broad range of chemical reactions in tis-sue processing via a set of buffers: a SWITCH-On buffer thatfacilitates chemical reactions between exogenous chemicalsand endogenous biomolecules, and a SWITCH-Off buffer thatsuppresses the reactions. SWITCH-mediated fixation trans-forms tissue into a heat- and chemical-resistant hybrid whilepreserving tissue architecture, native molecules, and their anti-genicity to a degree suitable for multiplexed proteomic imaging.The hybrids can be rapidly cleared at high temperature without damage. The method does not require perfusion and is thusapplicable to both animal and large human samples. In molecu-lar labeling of the processed samples, SWITCH controls probe-target binding kinetics to improve probe penetration depth andthe uniformity of molecular labeling. This method is simple, pas-sive, and does not require any special equipment or reagents.

Using SWITCH, we demonstrated that a minimum of 22rounds of molecular labeling of a banked postmortem human tis-sue with precise co-registration of multiple datasets at single-cell resolution is possible. We also demonstrated extraction ofa wide range of system variables, such as various cell typesand microvasculature from a single sample. In summary, wehave developed simple tissue processing methods and a volu-metric co-registration algorithm that can be readily adopted bymost laboratories for scalable proteomic imaging of intact bio-logical systems

To include a citation to the text, just add the citation key shown in the references.bib file. The style of the citation is determined by the ref_format.csl file. For example, in The Living Sea you can find pictures of the Calypso.

## Results

### Synchronizing Dialdehyde-Tissue-Gel FormationEnables Scalable Tissue Preservation

First, we sought to develop a way to transform animal and humansamples into a mechanically and chemically stable form for mul-tiplexed imaging. We hypothesized that small, non-ionic, multi-functional crosslinkers might satisfy two key requirements forsuch a transformation: (1) rapid penetration without the use ofperfusion and (2) a high degree of molecular crosslinking toimprove sample durability (Hopwood, 1972; Sung et al., 1996).Among many options, we chose to evaluate the following owingto their small size and high water solubility (Figure 1A): ethyleneglycol diglycidyl ether (EGDGE), dipropylene glycol diglycidylether (GE23), 1,4-butanediol diglycidyl ether (GE21), glycerolpolyglycidyl ether (EX-313), and glutaraldehyde (GA).

We found that all of these chemicals except GE23 formed asolid gel upon incubation with 15% bovine serum albumin(BSA), indicating the formation of a crosslinked network (Fig-ure 1B). We examined the stability of the gels along with poly-acrylamide (AA)-BSA gels by measuring the change in theirvolume after incubation in a 200 mM SDS solution heated to 80C (elution condition). AA-BSA gels swelled and became frag-ile after exposure to the harsh condition (Figures 1B and 1C),whereas multi-functional fixative-BSA gels maintained theirstructural integrity. In particular, GA-BSA gels showed minimalvolume change at a wide range of BSA and GA concentrations,whereas others only gelled at high protein concentrations (Fig-ure 1C). This result indicates that multifunctional fixatives alone might be sufficient to form a stable matrix that can withstandthe harsh elution condition. However, because the average pro-tein content throughout mouse brain samples is around 10% andmay be lower within certain regions, we decided that GA is thecrosslinker most likely to form a uniform framework throughoutall regions of a sample.

Next, we asked whether GA can rapidly penetrate tissue toform a uniform tissue-gel without the use of perfusion, which isrequired for processing most human clinical samples. We incu-bated a non-fixed whole adult rat brain in PBS containing 1%GA for 2 days and characterized the GA penetration depth andgel formation. Although the small size of GA should make it highlymobile, only the outer layer of the brain was fixed (Figure 1F).When a coronal slice from the middle of the brain was exposedto the elution condition, the core of the tissue completely disinte-grated, indicating that no gel matrix had formed in the center ofthe brain (Figure 1F). Limited GA penetration has significantlyhampered its use in preserving large postmortem tissues (Hop-wood, 1967). We suspect that rapid reaction of GA with nativebiomolecules within the outer layer of the brain may cause deple-tion of GA molecules before they can reach the core.

To overcome this issue, we sought to control the reaction ki-netics of GA and biomolecules throughout the system usingthe SWITCH approach to achieve uniform tissue preservation.We noted that the GA reaction rate is pH-dependent (Hopwood,1970). Indeed, when we titrated solutions of GA and BSA to pH 3,GA-BSA gel formation time increased by nearly 200-fold (Fig-ure 1D). Using this pH dependence, we were able to disperseGA uniformly throughout a sample by switching off the crosslink-ing reaction with a low-pH buffer (Figure 1E, left). After 2 days ofincubation at low pH, we switched on sample-wide GA-tissuecrosslinking by shifting the pH of the sample to a neutral pH (Fig-ure 1E, right). Using this passive buffer-switching approach, wewere able to achieve complete GA penetration and uniform gelformation throughout the entire rat brain (Figure 1F).

### Dialdehyde-Tissue-Gel Preserves Structural andMolecular Information Effectively

We next asked whether the GA-tissue-gel has mechanical andchemical properties desirable for multiplexing-based proteomicimaging. Proteomic imaging requires (1) high preservation ofendogenous biomolecules and their antigenicity, (2) high struc-tural integrity, and (3) minimal tissue damage during repeatedcycles of destaining, labeling, and imaging processes.

We first tested whether endogenous biomolecules are wellpreserved by measuring protein loss after clearing (see Supplemental Experimental Procedures). We found that controltissues lost an average of 30%–40% protein and AA-tissue-gellost 10%–20%, but GA-tissue-gel slices lost only 3%–5% of theirprotein content (Figure 1G).

We next asked whether antigenicity of the retained biomole-cules is well preserved. We tested 90 antibodies, targeting bio-molecules of different sizes (single amino acid to proteins) andsubcellular localizations (membrane bound, cytoplasm, nucleus,synapses). Surprisingly, 86 of 90 antibodies were compatiblewith GA-tissue-gel (Figures 1H, and 1I, andS1;Table S1). Notethat even small molecules, such as dopamine, which are nottypically compatible with PFA-fixation, were observable in GA-tissue-gel after the complete removal of lipid bilayers (Figure S1).These biomolecules were stable against heat and chemicaltreatment, and their antigenicity was well preserved after expo-sure to elution conditions.

Good structural preservation is essential for resolving proteinlocation with high precision and for studying molecular interrela-tionships. To characterize the macroscale structural preserva-tion of the samples, we cleared 1-mm-thick tissue blocks usingthe elution condition and visualized their structural deformation(Figure 1J). The PFA-only tissue completely disintegrated. Eventhe AA-tissue-gel exhibited large deformations overall. GA-tis-sue-gel, however, showed no signs of structural damagethroughout the entirety of the sample.

We next examined structural preservation on a microscopicscale. We imaged GFP-expressing neurons in the cortex of aPFA-fixed 1-mm-thick thy1-EGFP M line block (Figure 1K). Wethen SWITCH-processed the tissue, cleared it using the harshelution condition, stained it against GFP, and imaged the sameneurons. As shown inFigure 1K, the microscopic morphologyof the neurons was well preserved throughout the entire process.These results show GA-tissue-gel may be ideal for highly multi-plexed structural and molecular phenotyping.

### SWITCH and Robust Computational Algorithms EnableHighly Multiplexed Imaging at Single-Cell Resolution

Interrogating the three-dimensional (3D) distribution of mole-cules, cells, and the overall tissue organization requires preciseco-registration of multiple volume images. We first asked ifsimple manual overlay of two datasets allows precise co-regis-tration. As a stringent test, we used datasets from multi-roundimaging of a SWITCH-processed 100-mm-thick human brainslice (100mm33,200mm33,200mm) (Figure 2A). The highaspect ratio of such tissues makes it more prone to physicalwarping, which renders co-registration particularly challenging.We first stained the tissue using DAPI and anti-parvalbumin(PV) antibody. The slice was then enclosed in a space larger than the tissue to exaggerate possible tissue deformation inthe mounting process (Figure 2B). After imaging, the samplewas exposed to the elution condition overnight (O/N) tocompletely remove imaged probes. We then restained the tissueusing the same probes and repeated the imaging process. Notethat only GA-tissue-gels could maintain their integrity against theelution treatment. Both AA-tissue-gels and PFA-fixed samplesdeteriorated rapidly in the same condition.

As predicted, a large degree of tissue warping in the mountingprocess (Figure 2C) made manual overlay insufficient for the taskof interrogating a tissue across multiple staining rounds. Toachieve precise co-registration of volume images in the pres-ence of such high-degree warping, we custom-designed arobust computational software based on a feature-detectionapproach that was ideal for our experimental procedure (Fig-ure 2D). Each staining round contained one fluorescence chan-nel devoted to a lectin stain because the morphology of bloodvessels creates distinctive keypoints that computer vision algo-rithms are well suited to identify. With the keypoints, the algo-rithm warps the tissue in a physically plausible manner into thecorrect position (seeSupplemental Experimental Procedures).

As a stringent test of the algorithm, we used the sameSWITCH-processed human sample with the high aspect ratio(Figure 2A). For each round, the sample was stained withDAPI, lectin, and one antibody to label a target protein. Althoughat least three antibodies can be used for each round in additionto lectin and DAPI (Figure S2), we chose to use one antibody foreach round to eliminate any possible cross-talk between chan-nels. After acquiring images, we destained the sample andbegan the next round of labeling. We repeated the above proce-dure 22 times using markers for various cell types (Figure 2H;Ta-ble 1). Staining was not successful in every round due to the useof non-validated antibodies, sub-optimal staining conditions, orhuman error, all of which often occur in general laboratory set-tings and can result in the loss of important samples. However,a SWITCH-processed sample is free from this issue as the tissuecan be washed and reused repeatedly.

We were able to successfully co-register all nine datasets withsuccessful staining (Figures 2E and 2H;Movie S1). We askedwhether changes in the sample might be occurring betweenstaining rounds. To test this, we repeated staining with anti-PVantibodies in rounds 7 and 19 and co-registered the resulting da-tasets. Even when separated by 12 rounds of labeling, we wereable to achieve single-cell accuracy of registration with 99%agreement between the two rounds (Figure 2G).

We next performed joint statistical analysis of the integratedcross-talk-free dataset to extract diverse phenotypic informationfrom human brain (Figure 3). We included lectin, GFAP, NeuN, SMI-32, and three calcium-binding protein channels—calbindin(CB), calretinin (CR), and PV—in the quantitative analysis. First,we used semi-automated algorithms to identify blood vesselsand cells expressing the target antigens (Figures 3A and 3B)and extract their spatial (x, y, z coordinates) and morphological(e.g., cell soma size) information. Density and size profiles ofNeuN-positive cells (Figures 3C and 3D) enabled us to definethe cortical layers (Figure 3A) according to established criteria(de Sousa et al., 2010). NeuN+density was high in cortical layersII and IV, with characteristic small cells (NeuN inFigures 3A, 3C,3D, and 3H). Large NeuN+neurons were concentrated in layersIII and V. A portion of these were large pyramidal neurons posi-tive for SMI-32 (Figures 3A, 3E, and 3H). CB+,CR+, and PV+cellsalso showed distinct distribution patterns along the cortical axis(Figures 3A and 3D), in agreement with previous studies (Defelipeet al., 1999; Leuba et al., 1998).

We  next  performed  unbiased  combinatorial  expressionprofiling with the six cell-type specific proteins (GFAP, NeuN,SMI-32, CB, CR, PV). Among 63 possible combinations, 16were found (Table S2). We identified sub-populations of CB+/CR+and CB+/PV+cells, but no CR+/PV+or CB+/CR+/PV+, cells(Figures 3F, 3H, and 3I), in agreement with a previous reportregarding mouse visual cortex (Gonchar et al., 2007). Interestingly, we observed that a significant portion of the CB, CR, andPV-positive neurons do not express detectable levels of NeuN,a widely used pan-neuronal marker (Figures 3J and 3K) (Mullenet al., 1992). In particular, a majority of CR+cells showed veryweak (Figure 3K, arrowhead) or no NeuN immunoreactivity(29.1%), whereas all SMI-32+cells (Figures 3J and 3K) wereNeuN positive. These results suggest that NeuN expressionmay be neuronal-type-specific in adult human visual associationcortex. We also found a small number of CB+cells and PV+cellsco-expressing SMI-32, a widely used pyramidal neuronal marker(Table S2) (Campbell and Morrison, 1989). Five CB+/PV+cellswere identified as quadruple-positive (NeuN+/SMI-32+/CB+/PV+) cells (Figure 3G). All of the CB+cells and PV+cells co-ex-pressing SMI-32 were localized in cortical layers III and IV. Theseresults demonstrate the power of SWITCH as a tool for 3D prote-omicprofiling ofintact biological samplesatsingle cellresolution.

Structural relationships between vasculature and brain cellshave been a topic of interest in a broad range of basic and clinicalresearch. Many previous studies obtained the cell-to-vessel dis-tance from 2D images or small tissue volumes, which may hinderprecise measurement of such 3D properties. Moreover, in manystudies, separate measurements from different tissues neededto be compared without considering individual variabilities inlocal vasculature geometry. There has been no direct compari-son of 3D cell-to-vessel distance among diverse cell types withinthe same intact tissue.

Using the proteomic imaging capability of SWITCH, for the firsttime, we were able to directly measure cell-to-vessel distancesfor six different cell types within a single intact tissue (Figures3L–3O). As expected (McCaslin et al., 2011), GFAP+astrocyteshad a shorter mean distance than NeuN+neurons (Figure 3L).CB+and PV+cells were also more closely localized near bloodvessels than NeuN+cells, but the difference was relatively small.Figure 3M shows that vascular density is not uniform along thecortex. However, the extravascular pixel-to-vessel distance(Dp), which we defined as a reference parameter to reflect the ef-fect of the 3D vascular geometry (Figure 3M, right), did not showan inverse relationship with vascular density. This result maysuggest that 3D vessel geometry is an important parameter tobe considered in understanding a given vascular environment.In fact, cell-to-vessel distance profiles of many cell types closely followed the Dp profile (GFAP+,DG,and NeuN+,DN, shown inFigure 3M). In particular, when Dp was subtracted from cell-to-vessel distances (DX) to cancel the influence of vascular geometric variation, DX Dp turns out to be very consistent throughoutcortical depth (Figure 3N). We further examined the distance dis-tribution profiles for all cell types (Figure 3O). All profiles showedsimilar characteristic curves, which can be seen when objectsare randomly located in a 3D space (Manzo et al., 2014). Wecould not observe any cell-type-specific distribution profile orbi- or multi-modal distribution pattern in this sample. Together,these data demonstrate that SWITCH can be used for high-dimensional quantitative phenotyping of human clinical samples.

### SWITCH Enables Simple, Rapid, and Scalable Tissue-Clearing

To extend the multiplexed imaging capability of the SWITCHmethod to large systems, we developed a simple and rapid clearing method. We hypothesized that key steps in detergent-mediated lipid removal, such as permeation of SDS throughmembranes, might be strongly enhanced by increasing temper-ature (Keller et al., 2006), and SWITCH-processed samples mayendure prolonged incubation at elevated temperatures. Indeed,thermal energy drastically increased the passive clearing speedof SWITCH-processed samples without noticeable tissue dam-age (Figure 4A). We achieved passive clearing of a whole adultmouse brain within 4 days at 80C (versus 4 weeks at 37C)(Figure 4C).

Upon prolonged exposure to high temperatures, however,samples developed a brownish hue (Friedman, 1996), whichmay interfere with imaging at certain wavelengths (Figures 4B–4D and 4F). We found that reducing agents, such as sodiumsulfite and 1-thioglycerol, effectively mitigate tissue browningduring thermal clearing (Figures 4B–4D). Using thermal clearingwith the reducing agents, we successfully cleared intact adultrat brains (2 weeks) as well as human (1 week) and marmosetsamples (1 week), demonstrating the versatility and scalabilityof the method (Figures 4D and 4E). Clearing of various rodent or-gans was also demonstrated with lung, kidney, heart, liver, andspinal cord (Figure 4F). The efficacy of sodium sulfite as ananti-browning agent was seen across all tissues.

### SWITCH Enables Visualization and Quantitative Analysisof Entire Myelinated Fiber Tracts

We also sought to apply SWITCH to characterizing myelinated fi-ber pathways in the brain. Visualizing and analyzing neural fiberswith high-resolution light microscopy can provide valuable in-sights into many studies (Thomas et al., 2014; Wedeen et al.,2012; Zuccaro and Arlotta, 2013), such as validating diffusiontensor imaging (DTI) and understanding the organizing principlesof brain connectivity. Furthermore, quantitative analysis ofmyelinated fibers in 3D may benefit clinical studies and develop-ment of novel treatments for many demyelinating diseases(Steinman, 1999), such as multiple sclerosis and transversemyelitis. However, current methods for myelinated fiber visuali-zation require either genetic labeling or a large amount of costlyantibodies, limiting their utility to animal tissues or small clinicalsamples (Wedeen et al., 2012).

We discovered that a subset of lipids preserved in SWITCH-processed tissues (Hopwood, 1972; Roozemond, 1969) allowslipophilic dyes to selectively visualize lipid-rich membranes(Schlessinger et al., 1977). In particular, we found that long-chaindialkylcarbocyanines robustly stain myelinated axons (Fig-ure 5A). However, when we attempted to label an intact tissueusing conventional methods, we could not achieve dye penetration deeper than 100mm because dye molecules were depletedas they rapidly associated with abundant targets in the outerlayer (Figure 5C).

We hypothesized that SWITCH may enable rapid and uniformlabeling of intact tissues by synchronizing the labeling reactionglobally. We first screened a range of chemicals for controllingthe binding kinetics of the lipophilic dye and discovered that10 mM SDS effectively inhibits staining (Figure 5B). This result in-dicates that buffers containing 10 mM SDS might have a poten-tial to be used as a ‘‘SWITCH-Off’’ buffer. Using an approachanalogous to SWITCH-mediated GA fixation, we thought it mightbe possible to allow dye molecules to disperse uniformlythroughout a sample in the SWITCH-Off buffer and then activateglobal  probe-target  binding  with  the  SWITCH-On  buffer(Figure 5D).

To test this approach, we first incubated a 1-mm-thick mousebrain block in PBST containing 10 mM SDS and lipophilic dyesfor 24 hr at 37C (SWITCH-Off step). Then, we moved the tissueto PBST and incubated it for 3 hr at 37C (SWITCH-On step). Theresult was strikingly uniform labeling of all the myelinated axonswithin the sample (Figure 5D). Myelinated fibers were clearlyvisible throughout the depth while the control tissue showedsignal only from the surface (Figure 5C).

We leveraged this fiber visualization capability to investigatehow fibers and fascicles are organized in a mouse brain. Previ-ous research has shown that fibers may be organized in 3D grids(Wedeen et al., 2012). However, the structure of all of the individ-ual fibers has not yet been studied at the microscopic resolutionsand macroscopic scales necessary to visualize their 3D organi-zation. To that end, we obtained a volume image of labeledmyelinated fibers in a SWITCH-processed mouse brain coronalslice spanning from the cortex to the striatum (Figure 5E;MoviesS2andS3). This volume shows three main orientations of the fi-bers organized in a cubic grid: one radially projecting from thecorpus callosum and two parallel to the corpus callosum. Thesethree orientations are all orthogonal to one another (Figure 5F;Movie S3). The volume also shows fascicles that radiate fromthe striatum and diverge, almost at right angles, at the corpuscallosum (Figure 5E;Movie S3). To quantify this finding in anon-biased manner, we determined the orientation of each ofthe fibers present in the volume and calculated the angles atwhich these fibers would intersect (Figure 5G). In all three dimen-sions, the fibers indeed oriented themselves approximatelyorthogonally to each other (Figure 5H). We used a similarapproach to examine the fascicle orientations and found thatthey diverge almost orthogonally with respect to the corpus cal-losum in one of the axes (Figure 5I). These results are corroborated by the autocorrelation results (Figure S3andS4).This finding was made possible by the high-resolution andlarge-volume visualization capability of our method. A low-reso-lution approach would overlook the individual fibers while alow-volume approach would be unable to capture the entireconnectional anatomy.

We then tested whether this application of SWITCH could bescaled to larger tissues. We applied the SWITCH approach forlabeling an intact mouse hemisphere, but with 4 days of incu-bation in PBST containing 10 mM SDS and lipophilic dyes(SWITCH-Off step) and 1 day in PBST (SWITCH-On step). Weimaged this larger volume using a custom-built, high-speedlight-sheet microscope (Tomer et al., 2012; Tomer et al.,2014) within 2 hr and observed uniform labeling of all myelin-ated fibers across the entire tissue (Figure 5J;Movie S4). Asdemonstrated, the SWITCH-labeling approach is scalable toorgan-scale tissues. Just by scaling the incubation time withrespect to the tissue size, we were able to label the whole tis-sue. The cost of the dye molecules used for labeling the hemi-sphere was less than one dollar. We also demonstrated thatthis approach can be used for visualizing myelinated fibers inspinal  cords  (Movie  S5).  These  results  show  that  theSWITCH-labeling method can be used to uniformly label tis-sues ranging from a 1-mm-thick block to an entire hemispherefor quantitative analysis.

### SWITCH Enables Scalable and Uniform Antibody Labeling

We then asked whether SWITCH-mediated labeling could beapplied to the use of antibodies. We hypothesized that SDScould again be used as an effective inhibitor of antibody-antigenbinding in small concentrations. Indeed, when we assayed forantibody labeling at various concentrations of SDS, we foundthat 0.5 to 1.0 mM was a high enough concentration to inhibitbinding for many antibodies (Figure 6A).

Based on the results of our binding assay, we chose PBS con-taining 0.5 mM SDS as a SWITCH-Off buffer and PBST as aSWITCH-On buffer. We hypothesized that, because very littleantibody-antigen binding is occurring in the SWITCH-Off condi-tion, antibodies would effectively be able to diffuse to equilibriumthroughout the sample more rapidly than in PBST, in which anti-bodies are rapidly depleted at the surface (Figure 6B). To testthis, we attempted to label 1-mm-thick mouse brain blocks using anti-histone H3 antibodies. We labeled one sample using a 12 hrSWITCH-Off/12 hr SWITCH-On cycle and another using a stan-dard immunohistochemistry protocol with 12 hr of primary anti-body incubation in PBST followed by a 12 hr wash. For theSWITCH-On step, antibodies were not added to PBST. Theresult was a large increase in penetration depth and overallsignal uniformity in the SWITCH sample relative to the control(Figures 6B and 6C;Movie S6).

## Discussion

We have developed SWITCH, a simple method that enablesscalable proteomic imaging of intact systems without requiringany specialized equipment or reagents. SWITCH is complemen-tary to many pioneering technologies, each of which has itsown unique advantages. For example, matrix-assisted laserdesorption ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) andlaser-ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry(LA-ICP-MS) allow visualization of a large subset of proteinsand other biomolecules without a priori knowledge of targets.Recent advances in imaging mass spectrometry combinedwith immunohistochemistry (IHC) have significantly improvedresolution (Angelo et al., 2014; Giesen et al., 2014), which waslimited in MALDI-MS and LA-ICP-MS. This approach remarkablydemonstrated analysis of more than 100 targets at subcellularresolution.

Multiplexing strategies for IHC that rely on iterative stainingand elution have been developed. Among several pioneeringtechniques is array tomography, which involves cutting a tissuesample into tens or hundreds of nanometer-thick sections forstaining and imaging (Micheva et al., 2010). These sectionscan be repeatedly washed and stained for probing different pro-teins. This powerful method yields subcellular resolution imagesof a small volume of tissue with fairly high multiplexing capability.Although these advanced technologies enable new approachesin studying complex biological systems, these methods requirespecialized equipment and are, therefore, difficult to implementin most labs.

With the aim of developing a simple and scalable method forproteomic imaging of both large animal and human samples,we first needed to devise the SWITCH method for controlling abroad range of chemical reactions in tissue processing toachieve uniform sample treatment regardless of tissue size and type. SWITCH dynamically modulates chemical reaction kineticsto synchronize the reaction time between molecules throughoutthe system. This strategy enables all endogenous moleculartargets in a large intact tissue to experience similar reaction con-ditions (time and concentration). As a result, large tissues can beuniformly processed.

The SWITCH approach takes advantage of the way certainchemicals can be reversibly and rapidly changed by simplymodulating their surrounding environment. For instance, in theGA-tissue-gelling step, we were able to decrease the rate ofGA-biomolecule crosslinking by two orders of magnitude by us-ing pH 3 buffer, because primary amine groups in endogenousbiomolecules are protonated at low pH and the resulting chargedamine cannot react with GA (Hopwood, 1972). This pH-depen-dent reactivity means that after uniformly dispersing GA in a tis-sue at low pH, we can ‘‘switch-on’’ inactivated amine groups bychanging the amine’s surrounding environment to a neutral-pHbuffer. At neutral pH, charged amine groups are rapidly deproto-nated and become reactive. In the case of human samples or an-imal samples that were previously PFA-fixed for a differentpurpose, this simple strategy enables all the endogenous bio-molecules in a large intact tissue to simultaneously experiencea similar GA-fixation/gelling condition. PFA-fixed tissues canwithstand treatment at low pH while GA molecules are intro-duced. In the case of non-fixed samples, we recommend thatthey first be fixed with PFA before exposure to acidic conditions.If perfusion is possible, it is the recommended method of sample preservation.

Uniform GA-tissue-gel formation is a crucial first step towardour goal. Fixation of large samples via traditional immersion isunlikely to uniformly preserve them because highly reactive GAmolecules are depleted within the outer layers of a sample.This presents a significant problem for iterative staining-basedmethods that rely on the removal of imaged probes using harshelution conditions, because non-uniform preservation results innon-uniform loss of structure and molecules throughout the pro-cess. As demonstrated, our pH-SWITCH strategy ensuresexceptionally uniform preservation of biological tissues thatcannot be perfused (e.g., banked human clinical samples),meeting the requirements of proteomic imaging and quantitative phenotyping.

It has been noted that fixation with GA results in an increase inbroad spectrum autofluorescence. While this autofluorescencehas been low enough to allow quantitative analysis, it could beproblematic in visualizing targets with low copy number. Weinvestigated the use of sodium borohydride as a method ofreducing autofluorescence, but found that the tissue damage resulting from this incubation procedure offset any benefitsobtained from the modest decrease in autofluorescence thatwe were able to observe (Figure S5).

The use of reducing agents has allowed us to eliminate theissue of tissue browning during high-temperature clearing, butwe also observed that excessive use of these chemicals maycause gradual tissue weakening. This is likely due to the reduc-tion of disulfide linkages that maintain the tertiary structure ofproteins within a sample, resulting in increased protein denatur-ation. Protein denaturation may lead to reduced sample antige-nicity, but we have not found this to be an issue when usingconservative amounts of reducing agents. Additionally, due tothe instability of mRNA at elevated temperatures, this methodof rapid clearing is not compatible with methods that requirethe preservation of mRNA (Figure S6).

Multiplexed imaging requires software to warp each experi-ment into a common coordinate system despite the subtle phys-ical differences between each staining round. Variance cancome in the form of rigid body changes (rotation, translation,and scale), illumination artifacts, stain quality, and tissue degra-dation. We observed that a feature-based algorithm givesmaximum robustness across these sources of variance at thecost of increased computational requirements—a reasonabletrade given the declining costs of such resources. To simplifythe process, gross rigid alignments (i.e., rotating the tissue 180degrees) are still best handled by human eye before the data are passed to the algorithm to achieve the cellular-scale registration.

SWITCH can provide a reliable way to obtain integrated high-dimensional information from intact biological samples. Usingthe  cross-talk-free  dataset,  we  successfully  performednon-biased combinatorial expression analysis of a single hu-man clinical tissue to unequivocally identify diverse cell-typesbased on their distinct protein expression patterns. Our quanti-tative analysis shows that CR+/PV+cells do not exist within theexamined volume of the human V2 cortex. The same findingwas reported in mouse visual cortex (Gonchar et al., 2007),but  such  co-expression  patterns  among  calcium-bindingproteins may differ among brain regions and between individ-uals and species (Anelli and Heckman, 2005; Defelipe et al.,1999), which, therefore, calls for more comprehensive large-scale investigation.

We observed many NeuN-negative interneurons. NeuN, aneuron-specific RNA-binding protein known as Rbfox3 protein(Kim et al., 2009), has been widely used as a pan-neuronalmarker for statistical analysis of many types of mature neurons(Baleriola et al., 2014; Pickrell et al., 2015). Only a few types ofneurons are exceptions, such as cerebellar Purkinje cells, olfac-tory bulb mitral cells, and retinal photoreceptor cells (Mullenet al., 1992). However, even though we applied strict criteriato prevent weak NeuN+ cells from being identified as NeuN- cells, substantial portions of CB+,CR+, and PV+ neurons were still NeuN- while all SMI+ neurons were NeuN+. This resultis supported by a recent report that some CR+are not NeuN+,and CR and NeuN immunoreactivities have a negative correla-tion in the avian brainstem (Bloom et al., 2014). Likewise, inour experiments on human visual association cortex, cellswith strong immunoreactivity against calcium-binding protein markers were frequently negative or very weakly positive forNeuN. These findings, together with a series of exceptionalreports such as those on NeuN+cultured astrocytes (Darlingtonet al., 2008) and GFAP+neuron-like cells (Oka et al., 2015), indi-cate that classical cell-type markers, particularly NeuN, mayneed to be used more carefully in light of their selectivity and function.

The SWITCH method has the potential to modulate a widerange of probe-target binding reactions. Probe-target interac-tions are governed by a multiplicity of non-covalent bondssuch as hydrogen bonds, electrostatic forces, van der Waalsbonds, and hydrophobic interactions (Mian et al., 1991). Theseweak forces can be effectively controlled by changing thesurrounding chemical environment (e.g., ionic strength, pH,chemical additive, and temperature) (Kamata et al., 1996).For instance, we discovered that the addition of SDS alone, indifferent concentrations, can completely inhibit lipophilic dye-target and antibody-antigen binding reactions.

The SWITCH method’s unique uniform-labeling capability en-ables quantitative analysis of large tissues that was previouslyonly possible for thin tissue sections. Quantitative analysis reliesheavily on signal intensity and SNR. Non-uniform or heteroge-neous labeling would prohibit or, even worse, bias the analysis.While post hoc image processing methods could correct forsmall gradients in labeling (or imaging), large gradients causedby non-uniform labeling, where the surface of the tissue is satu-rated while the core is mostly unlabeled, would preclude imagerecovery. If the labeling is heterogeneous, the resulting datawould be heavily biased, and no image processing methodscould salvage such data in a fair way. This is why quantitativeanalysis of non-uniformly labeled tissues is a great challenge.However, tissues labeled using SWITCH exhibit uniform signalintensity and SNR throughout the tissue. Such a clear datasetlends itself well to quantitative analysis.

Although SWITCH enables processing of large samples, thespeed of labeling is still fundamentally limited by passive diffu-sion. This is not of concern for smaller samples or even single-round investigation of large samples, but multiplexed imagingof large samples becomes impractical as a result, potentially tak-ing months or years to collect the range of desired data. Recentlydeveloped methods of stochastic electrotransport (Kim et al.,2015) could potentially be combined with SWITCH to facilitatethese experiments.

Together with its simplicity, scalability, and broad applicability,our data suggest that SWITCH provides access to high-dimen-sional multi-scale information that may help to understand healthand disease from molecules to cells to entire systems.

## Experimental Procedures

### Mice

Young adult male and female C57BL/6 and Thy1-eGFP-M mice were housedin a reverse 12 hr light/dark cycle with unrestricted access to food and water.All experimental protocols were approved by the MIT Institutional Animal Careand Use Committee and Division of Comparative Medicine and were in accor-dance with guidelines from the National Institute of NIH.

### SWITCH-Mediated Tissue Preservation

PFA-fixed human samples were washed in a solution consisting of 50% PBStitrated to pH 3 using HCl, 25% 0.1 M HCl, and 25% 0.1 M potassium hydrogenphthalate (KHP). This wash solution was then replaced with fresh solution withthe addition of 4%–10% GA. The samples were then incubated in this pH 3 so-lution at 4C for 2 days with gentle shaking. The solution was then replacedwith PBS with the addition of 1%–4% GA and the sample was again allowedto incubate for 2 days at 4C and 2–7 hr at 37C with gentle shaking. The sample was then washed in PBS at room temperature (RT) for 1 day with gentleshaking. After washing, reactive GA within the sample was inactivated by incu-bation in a solution consisting of 4% glycine and 4% acetamide for 1 day at37C with gentle shaking. Finally, the sample was washed for 1 day in PBS at RT with gentle shaking.

### Passive Clearing with Thermal Energy

Aqueous clearing solution containing 200 mM SDS, 10 mM lithium hydroxide,40 mM boric acid, and a variable amount of anti-browning agent (i.e., 0–50 mMsodium sulfite or 0%–0.5% w/v 1-thioglycerol) was titrated to pH 9 usingsodium hydroxide before use. Samples were incubated at 60–80C until clearusing Easy-Passive (EP-1001; Live Cell Instrument) or a water bath.

### Sample Delabeling

Imaged samples were delabeled in clearing solution at 60–80C (elution con-dition) for 1–2 days for large samples and O/N for thin samples.

### SWITCH-Mediated Fluorescent Labeling

Samples were incubated in SWITCH-Off solution (0.5 or 10 mM SDS in PBS) O/N with gentle shaking at 37C and transferred to a fresh volume of SWITCH-Off solution (containing molecular probes) just enough to cover thesample. Samples were incubated at 37C with gentle shaking and timeswere scaled with sample size. Samples were then transferred to a large volumeof PBST (SWITCH-On) and incubated at 37C with gentle shaking.

## Supplemental Information

Supplemental Information includes Supplemental Experimental Procedures,six figures, two tables, and six movies and can be found with this article online at     http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2015.11.025.

## Author Contributions

K.C. conceived the SWITCH idea. E.M., J.H.C, D.G., T.K., J.S., and K.C. de-signed the experiments. E.M. designed and performed multiplexed stainingand imaging experiments. D.G. and H.S.S. developed and implemented theregistration algorithm. T.K. performed all analysis related to the human visualcortex sample with input from K.C., M.P.F., and H.S.S. J.H.C. performed allanalysis related to DiD datasets. E.M., N.B., and S.-Y.K. performed antibodycompatibility testing. E.M., J.H.C, N.B., A.H., and J.S. performed testing ofcross-linked protein gels with various fixatives. E.M. performed protein lossand structural preservation experiments. E.M., J.S., and N.B. designed andperformed experiments relating to thermal clearing and use of anti-browningagents. E.M. and M.M. performed DiD staining experiments. E.M. andY.-G.P. performed antibody SWITCH experiments. H.C. designed and builtthe light-sheet microscope, and J.H.C. developed the software. J.-Y.P. pro-vided spinal cord samples. Y.-G.P. performed mRNA experiments. M.P.F. pro-vided human samples. H.S.S., V.J.W., and M.P.F. provided helpful discussionregarding the manuscript. S.V. provided experimental support. E.M., J.H.C.,D.G., T.K., J.S., S.-Y.K., V.J.W., and K.C. wrote the manuscript. K.C. supervised all aspects of the work.

## Acknowledgments

We thank the entire Chung laboratory for support and helpful discussions.S.-Y.K. was supported by the Simons Postdoctoral Fellowship and the LifeSciences Research Foundation. K.C. was supported by Burroughs WellcomeFund Career Awards at the Scientific Interface, the Searle Scholars Program, the Michael J. Fox Foundation, DARPA, the JPB Foundation (PIIF and PNDRF),and NIH (1-U01-NS090473-01). M.P.F. was supported in part by the Massa-chusetts Alzheimer Disease Research Center (5 P50 AG005134). Resourcesthat may help enable general users to establish the methodology are freelyavailable online. (www.chunglabresources.org).

Received: August 31, 2015
Revised: October 9, 2015
Accepted: November 10, 2015
Published: December 3, 2015

## References

Alivisatos, A.P., Chun, M., Church, G.M., Deisseroth, K., Donoghue, J.P.,Greenspan, R.J., McEuen, P.L., Roukes, M.L., Sejnowski, T.J., Weiss, P.S.,and Yuste, R. (2013). Neuroscience. The brain activity map. Science339,1284–1285.

Anelli, R., and Heckman, C.J. (2005). The calcium binding proteins calbindin,parvalbumin, and calretinin have specific patterns of expression in the graymatter of cat spinal cord. J. Neurocytol.34, 369–385.

Angelo, M., Bendall, S.C., Finck, R., Hale, M.B., Hitzman, C., Borowsky, A.D.,Levenson, R.M., Lowe, J.B., Liu, S.D., Zhao, S., et al. (2014). Multiplexed ionbeam imaging of human breast tumors. Nat. Med.20, 436–442.

Baleriola, J., Walker, C.A., Jean, Y.Y., Crary, J.F., Troy, C.M., Nagy, P.L., andHengst, U. (2014). Axonally synthesized ATF4 transmits a neurodegenerativesignal across brain regions. Cell158, 1159–1172.

Bloom, S., Williams, A., and MacLeod, K.M. (2014). Heterogeneous calretininexpression in the avian cochlear nucleus angularis. J. Assoc. Res. Otolaryngol.15, 603–620.

Campbell, M.J., and Morrison, J.H. (1989). Monoclonal antibody to neurofila-ment protein (SMI-32) labels a subpopulation of pyramidal neurons in the hu-man and monkey neocortex. J. Comp. Neurol.282, 191–205.

Chung, K., and Deisseroth, K. (2013). CLARITY for mapping the nervous sys-tem. Nat. Methods10, 508–513.

Chung, K., Wallace, J., Kim, S.-Y., Kalyanasundaram, S., Andalman, A.S., Da-vidson, T.J., Mirzabekov, J.J., Zalocusky, K.A., Mattis, J., Denisin, A.K., et al.(2013). Structural and molecular interrogation of intact biological systems.Nature497, 332–337.

Darlington, P.J., Goldman, J.S., Cui, Q.L., Antel, J.P., and Kennedy, T.E.(2008). Widespread immunoreactivity for neuronal nuclei in cultured humanand rodent astrocytes. J. Neurochem.104, 1201–1209.

de Sousa, A.A., Sherwood, C.C., Schleicher, A., Amunts, K., MacLeod, C.E.,Hof, P.R., and Zilles, K. (2010). Comparative cytoarchitectural analyses of stri-ate and extrastriate areas in hominoids. Cereb. Cortex20, 966–981.

Defelipe, J., Gonza ́lez-Albo, M.C., Del Rı ́o,M.R., and Elston, G.N. (1999). Dis-tribution and patterns of connectivity of interneurons containing calbindin, cal-retinin, and parvalbumin in visual areas of the occipital and temporal lobes ofthe macaque monkey. J. Comp. Neurol.412, 515–526.

Friedman, M. (1996). Food Browning and Its Prevention: An Overview. J. Agric.Food Chem.44, 631–653.

Giesen, C., Wang, H.A.O., Schapiro, D., Zivanovic, N., Jacobs, A., Hattendorf,B., Schu ̈ffler, P.J., Grolimund, D., Buhmann, J.M., Brandt, S., et al. (2014).Highly multiplexed imaging of tumor tissues with subcellular resolution bymass cytometry. Nat. Methods11, 417–422.

Gonchar, Y., Wang, Q., and Burkhalter, A. (2007). Multiple distinct subtypes ofGABAergic neurons in mouse visual cortex identified by triple immunostaining.Front. Neuroanat.1,3.

Hopwood, D. (1967). Some aspects  of fixation  with  glutaraldehyde.A biochemical and histochemical comparison of the effects of formaldehydeand glutaraldehyde fixation on various enzymes and glycogen, with a noteon penetration of glutaraldehyde into liver. J. Anat.101, 83–92.

Hopwood, D. (1970). The reactions between formaldehyde, glutaraldehydeand osmium tetroxide, and their fixation effects o bovine serum albumin andon tissue blocks. Histochemie24, 50–64.Cell163, 1500–1514, December 3, 2015ª2015 Elsevier Inc.1513

Hopwood, D. (1972). Theoretical and practical aspects of glutaraldehyde fixa-tion. Histochem. J.4, 267–303.

Kamata, N., Enomoto, A., Ishida, S., Nakamura, K., Kurisaki, J., and Kamino-gawa, S. (1996). Comparison of pH and ionic strength dependence of interac-tions between monoclonal antibodies and bovineb-lactoglobulin. Biosci.Biotechnol. Biochem.60, 25–29.

Kasthuri, N., Hayworth, K.J., Berger, D.R., Schalek, R.L., Conchello, J.A.,Knowles-Barley, S., Lee, D., Va ́zquez-Reina, A., Kaynig, V., Jones, T.R.,et al. (2015). Saturated Reconstruction of a Volume of Neocortex. Cell162,648–661.

Keller, S., Heerklotz, H., and Blume, A. (2006). Monitoring lipid membranetranslocation of sodium dodecyl sulfate by isothermal titration calorimetry.J. Am. Chem. Soc.128, 1279–1286.

Kim, K.K., Adelstein, R.S., and Kawamoto, S. (2009). Identification of neuronalnuclei (NeuN) as Fox-3, a new member of the Fox-1 gene family of splicing fac-tors. J. Biol. Chem.284, 31052–31061.

Kim, S.-Y., Cho, J.H., Murray, E., Bakh, N., Choi, H., Ohn, K., Ruelas, L., Hub-bert, A., McCue, M., Vassallo, S.L., et al. (2015). Stochastic electrotransportselectively enhances the transports of highly electromobile molecules. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA112, E6274–E6283.

Leuba, G., Kraftsik, R., and Saini, K. (1998). Quantitative distribution of parval-bumin, calretinin, and calbindin D-28k immunoreactive neurons in the visualcortex of normal and Alzheimer cases. Exp. Neurol.152, 278–291.

Manzo, C., van Zanten, T.S., Saha, S., Torreno-Pina, J.A., Mayor, S., and Gar-cia-Parajo, M.F. (2014). PSF decomposition of nanoscopy images viaBayesian analysis unravels distinct molecular organization of the cell mem-brane. Sci. Rep.4, 4354.

McCaslin, A.F.H., Chen, B.R., Radosevich, A.J., Cauli, B., and Hillman, E.M.C.(2011). In vivo 3D morphology of astrocyte-vasculature interactions in the so-matosensory cortex: implications for neurovascular coupling. J. Cereb. BloodFlow Metab.31, 795–806.

Mian, I.S., Bradwell, A.R., and Olson, A.J. (1991). Structure, function and prop-erties of antibody binding sites. J. Mol. Biol.217, 133–151.

Micheva, K.D., Busse, B., Weiler, N.C., O’Rourke, N., and Smith, S.J. (2010).Single-synapse analysis of a diverse synapse population: proteomic imagingmethods and markers. Neuron68, 639–653.

Mullen, R.J., Buck, C.R., and Smith, A.M. (1992). NeuN, a neuronal specific nu-clear protein in vertebrates. Development116, 201–211.

Oka, Y., Ye, M., and Zuker, C.S. (2015). Thirst driving and suppressing signalsencoded by distinct neural populations in the brain. Nature520, 349–352.

Pickrell, A.M., Huang, C.-H., Kennedy, S.R., Ordureau, A., Sideris, D.P., Hoekstra, J.G., Harper, J.W., and Youle, R.J. (2015). Endogenous Parkin PreservesDopaminergic Substantia Nigral Neurons following Mitochondrial DNA Muta-genic Stress. Neuron87, 371–381.

Rah, J.-C., Bas, E., Colonell, J., Mishchenko, Y., Karsh, B., Fetter, R.D., Myers,E.W., Chklovskii, D.B., Svoboda, K., Harris, T.D., and Isaac, J.T. (2013). Tha-lamocortical input onto layer 5 pyramidal neurons measured using quantitativelarge-scale array tomography. Front. Neural Circuits7, 177.

Renier, N., Wu, Z., Simon, D.J., Yang, J., Ariel, P., and Tessier-lavigne, M.(2014). iDISCO: A Simple, Rapid Method to Immunolabel Large Tissue Sam-ples for Volume Imaging. Cell159, 896–910.

Richardson, D.S., and Lichtman, J.W. (2015). Clarifying Tissue Clearing. Cell162, 246–257.

Roozemond, R.C. (1969). The effect of fixation with formaldehyde and glutar-aldehyde on the composition of phospholipids extractable from rat hypothal-amus. J. Histochem. Cytochem.17, 482–486.

Schlessinger, J., Axelrod, D., Koppel, D.E., Webb, W.W., and Elson, E.L.(1977). Lateral transport of a lipid probe and labeled proteins on a cell mem-brane. Science195, 307–309.

Steinman, L. (1999). Assessment of animal models for MS and demyelinatingdisease in the design of rational therapy. Neuron24, 511–514.

Sung, H.W., Hsu, H.L., Shih, C.C., and Lin, D.S. (1996). Cross-linking charac-teristics of biological tissues fixed with monofunctional or multifunctionalepoxy compounds. Biomaterials17, 1405–1410.

Susaki, E.A., Tainaka, K., Perrin, D., Kishino, F., Tawara, T., Watanabe, T.M.,Yokoyama, C., Onoe, H., Eguchi, M., Yamaguchi, S., et al. (2014). Whole-brainimaging with single-cell resolution using chemical cocktails and computationalanalysis. Cell157, 726–739.

Thomas, C., Ye, F.Q., Irfanoglu, M.O., Modi, P., Saleem, K.S., Leopold, D.A.,and Pierpaoli, C. (2014). Anatomical accuracy of brain connections derived from diffusion MRI tractography is inherently limited. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA111, 16574–16579.

Tomer, R., Khairy, K., Amat, F., and Keller, P.J. (2012). Quantitative high-speedimaging of entire developing embryos with simultaneous multiview light-sheetmicroscopy. Nat. Methods9, 755–763.

Tomer, R., Ye, L., Hsueh, B., and Deisseroth, K. (2014). Advanced CLARITY forrapid and high-resolution imaging of intact tissues. Nat. Protoc.9, 1682–1697.

Wedeen, V.J., Rosene, D.L., Wang, R., Dai, G., Mortazavi, F., Hagmann, P.,Kaas, J.H., and Tseng, W.-Y.I. (2012). The geometric structure of the brain fiberpathways. Science335, 1628–1634.

Yuste, R. (2015). From the neuron doctrine to neural networks. Nat. Rev. Neu-rosci.16, 487–497.

Zuccaro, E., and Arlotta, P. (2013). The quest for myelin in the adult brain. Nat.Cell Biol.15, 572–575.1514Cell163, 1500–1514, December 3, 2015ª2015 Elsevier Inc.
