# Introduction

## Multiscale intrinsic complexity of the brain

The human brain is a complex biological system with components spanning multiple
length scales, including synapses, neurons, and various brain regions. Synapses
can transfer signals via neurotransmitters and form local connections between
neurons. Neurons can project over long distances, allowing these local synaptic
connections to be used to construct a large-scale intercellular network.
Although the human brain consists of approximately 100 billion neurons, this
number pales in comparison to over 100 trillion synaptic connections within the
same brain. This combinatorial explosion of intercellular interactions in the
brain is simultaneously what gives rise its emergent properties and what makes
it so difficult for neuroscientists to understand.

The pioneering work of Ramon y Cajal depicted neural structures with
unprecidented detail and revealed the existence of different types of neurons.
Since then, it has become clear that the brain is no exception to the intimate
link between structure and function seen throughout biology. Above the
single-cell scale, patterns in cellular organization, or cytoarchitecture, begin
to emerge. Different cytoarchitectural appearances seen within Nissl-stained
brain sections serve as the basis for defining more macroscopic brain regions.
These regions are often defined hierarchically, with the coarsest partitioning
being the lobes of the brain. 

In this depiction of various length scales in the brain, two high-level
approaches to understanding overall brain function begin to emerge. One is a
bottom-up approach, which emphasizes cellular electrophysiology and subcellular
structures. Another is a top-down approach, which emphasizes the functional
associations of each brain region and large-scale anatomical variations.

Glia support neuronal function and influence synaptic remodeling, and microglia
patrol the parenchyma to clear debris and respond to inflammatory signals.


Brain = Complex system with components over multiple length scales.
This complexity is intrinsic as opposed to incidental...

## Trends in biological models used in neuroscience

In neuroscience, researchers often use model systems as a proxy for the human
brain, and each brain model has its own set of advantages and disadvantages in a
given biological context. Researchers typically use brain models that have been
previously demonstrated to be useful to study the neurological phenomena or
complex phenotypes of interest.



Trend towards more larger, more complex brain models in neuroscience--presumably
to model more complex phenotypes

## Evolution of experimental techniques

Techniques optimized for simpler systems, hard to apply to directly to these new
models

Technological breakthroughs in neuroscience are often those advances that allow
researchers to attack long-standing biological questions in new ways.

CLARITY, optogenetics, organoid culture - all examples of this for different
reasons

## Thesis aims

This work is aimed at addressing technical challenges associated with scaling up
the staining and imaging or large brain models, the computational analysis of
whole-brain scale datasets, and the culture of organoid brain models.
